When we built our original floor desk
setups, floor to standing desks were just a
fantasy. Fast forward to today. If you're looking
to get one, then after watching this video,
you'll have another problem. Choices. Because the
Flow Desk is one more option you should keep in
consideration. marinamantra reached out to us and
they have also sponsored this video so that we can
introduce the new desk to you. But as usual,
we'll be sharing our genuine experience. And
spoiler alert, our experience has been positive.
But first, let's find some space to set this
thing up. Whenever HL and I work in the same room,
we'll always find ways to distract each other. So,
I would usually get some of my work done in the
living room. What we're going to do is we'll set
up the Flow Desk in this corner of our living room
as a secondary workspace. And this will be my home
for the next couple of weeks. At first glance,
it's easy to mistake this as just a simple X-frame
mechanism. Sort of like a motorized ironing board,
which had been done on other adjustable desks. But
with a regular X-frame, the base gets narrower
the higher it goes, which theoretically means it
becomes less stable. And another thing we thought
might drive us nuts is that depending on chance,
the desk could drift to either side when changing
heights. Initially, we thought the Flow Desk was
just another X-frame, so we weren't particularly
thrilled, but then we paid closer attention and
realized that this was something different. Its
feet stay in position where the desk goes up and
down. This means it retains a wide base even as
it goes higher. And most importantly, there's no
drifting whatsoever. Nice. And then usually
after setting up a desk for the first time,
you would have the dreadful time-wasting task of
cable management. But if you would take a look at
this, while I would love to take credit for this
immaculate cable management job, the truth is I
didn't do anything. The flow desk comes with
these felt covers that you put on to hide the
cables. There's a cutout for where your legs go,
and there's even a rear cable tray for additional
organization. Even after tidying up the cables,
there's still one cable you can't hide. You always
have to account for the cable that powers the desk
so that it can move up and down freely. But the
flow desk has an integrated system where the power
and cables run inside of the legs with the plug-in
point at the bottom. So no dangling cables, no
need to worry about not leaving enough slack for
this cable or that it might snag onto objects
when moving up or down. You can see why after
just setting up the desk, we are already impressed
with the various thoughtful design elements and
quality of life improvements. But it's time
to get to actually using the desk.
The Flow Desk is able to go as low as 37 cm, the
lowest we've had the experience of trying so far.
At this height, we're getting into usable
territory when sitting directly on the floor.
If you're on a shorter side, then it may not be
the best idea, but as long as you have something
like a yoga block, then this should work for most
people. At this height, not much side to side
wobble and a very small amount of front to back
wobble. Height adjustment is done with the touch
sensitive panel integrated into the top of the
desk. Moving from the lowest to highest setting
took about 36 seconds. On paper, we notice this is
a touch slower than regular height adjustable desk
as these legs have to move horizontally to push
the desk up and down vertically. So, some speed is
lost there. However, in practice, we never really
felt bothered by that few seconds of difference.
At its tallest, the desk measures about 119 cm. I
am not 6 ft tall, but if I were, the desk should
still be able to accommodate. At this height,
lateral stability is still very good, but as to be
expected, you'll notice more front to back wobble,
although it remains very acceptable. We would
have liked to see micro adjustments available on
the desk feet, for example, to account for when
there's unevenness in the floor surface. We feel
like that could improve the stability even more.
We've tested the desk with our laptop for a while
now and it's quite clear that this is not the most
ergonomic arrangement, but marinamantra has taken
that into consideration. So, we're going to set up
the bunk table accessory, and then we'll put the
desk through a more extensive test.
Here are our thoughts. After using the desk for
a couple of weeks, it's actually our first
time using a monitor riser or bunk table, and
it definitely puts the laptop screen at a more
appropriate height. I also like how convenient it
is to be able to quickly slide the desk mat under
it to make space for other things. Throughout our
test, we tried sitting in a bunch of different
ways. We noticed that when the desk is low, the
frame can get in our legs way a little when we
are switching between positions. Over time, we
got used to it and became aware enough to avoid
it. This is just a minor inconvenience for us as
we no longer sit in positions where we frequently
want to stretch our legs out in front of us, but
it could be an important consideration for you
if you like to lean back and stretch your legs at
your desk. That's just the unfortunate reality of
this sort of X-frame design. Next, we have to talk
about noise levels. It was surprising how quiet
the motor is on this desk. When there's background
noise, like when our fans are running and there
are cars going by outside, we can barely hear the
desk when it's moving. And that's very impressive.
However, on our unit, there is a small squeak for
a split second whenever the desk starts moving
off, a bit like a creaky cabinet door. We believe
this is an anomaly, perhaps uneven lubrication,
as it did get a bit better with time and use. The
touch panel for me has been a bit of a love-hate
relationship. In the first couple of days, while
I'm still familiarizing myself with the desk,
I accidentally activated the touch controls a
number of times. Thankfully, it's just as quick
and easy to stop right away and get it back to
the height that I want. Touch controls look sleek
and more integrated with the desk, and once I
got used to it, they are fast and convenient.
Still, they are more accident-prone. So I just
learned to develop a certain mindfulness about
not accidentally touching this corner of the desk.
I think with just a few tweaks marinamantra could
really improve the user experience and prevent
accidental touches. There are a few more quality
of life inclusions that we didn't mention. For
example, there are two built-in power outlets, one
in the rear cable tray and another at the front.
These are, of course, very convenient features and
we hope that when marinamantra eventually sells
these desks outside of the US, they will come with
region specific power outlets so we don't have to
use adapters anymore. All in all, we think this
is a really unique desk. It looks unique and it
functions uniquely as well. Many standing desks
can look and feel industrial if you get what I
mean. Whereas this feels warm, refined and dare
I say designer-ish. The Flow Desk impressed us from
the moment we set it up, and continued to impress
during our extended test. It functions as well as
we would expect from a standing desk, but it's the
many small thoughtful design elements that left
the strongest impression. If you're thinking about
getting a floor to standing desk, definitely keep
this in consideration. An x-frame style desk has
its pros and cons compared to a more conventional
one. But if that's not a dealbreaker for you,
the marinamantra Flow Desk is an easy one to
recommend. If you're interested, you can use
our link and discount code down below to save some
money on your order, and that helps to support our
channel as well. There's also a written version
of our review, which we'll continue to update with
more details about our long-term experience. If
you have any questions, don't be shy about asking
them in the comments and we'll do our best to
answer them. See you in the next one.